To start with git from scratch:

1) Working copy : This is refer to the project that you are working on you local machine.
2) Staging area : Once you are done with your project, move your files in which you have done changes and wanted to be part of your next commit in staging area.
3) Local repository : Once the all required files have been moved to staging area, commit those changes in local repository. It helps you to maintain the version control on local machine.
4) Remote repository : Similar to local repository, it maintains version control on remote server. 


Beginer flow:
Step 1) Create local repository
Command : git init
It creates empty repository on your local machine that is .git folder.

Step 2) Track the status of files.
Command : git status
This commands compare your working copy and local repository, based on that you may find the following stages of a file in working directory.
Untracked files : These files are newly created and never committed in local repository.
Modified files : Files in which changes are done and not committed.

Step 3) Add files in staging area
Command : git add <file name>
This commands add files in stagin area.
Differenet ways to use add command :
1) git add : To add a specific list of files to staging area.
2) git add --all : To add all files of current directory to staging area.
3) git add docs/ : To add all files in a particular directory to staging area.
4) git add *.txt : To add text files (or any specific extension files) to staging area.

Step 4) Configure username and email to authorize the identity.
Command : 
git config --global user.email "you@example.com"
git config --global user.name "Your Name"

Step 5) Commit your changes to local repository.
Command : git commit -m "Commit message"

Step 6) Add a new remote repository.
Command : git remote add origin <remote repository url>
Create a new repository on git and use repository url to add remote repository reference to your project.

Step 7) Push the local repository changes to remote repository.
Command : git push -u origin master
In the command, the origin is your default remote repository name and '-u' flag is upstream, which is equivalent to '-set-upstream' and the master is the branch.